README.template.md, before:

# bbin

**ALPHA STATUS**

Install any Babashka script or project with one command.

```
$ bbin install io.github.rads/watch
{:coords {:git/sha "d5f36aa54e685f42f9592a7f3dd28badc3588c08",
          :git/tag "v0.0.4",
          :git/url "https://github.com/rads/watch"},
 :lib io.github.rads/watch}
        
$ watch --version
watch 0.0.4

$ bbin install https://gist.githubusercontent.com/rads/da8ecbce63fe305f3520637810ff9506/raw/25e47ce2fb5f9a7f9d12a20423e801b64c20e787/portal.clj
{:coords {:bbin/url "https://gist.githubusercontent.com/rads/da8ecbce63fe305f3520637810ff9506/raw/25e47ce2fb5f9a7f9d12a20423e801b64c20e787/portal.clj"}}

# Open a Portal window with all installed scripts
$ portal <(bbin ls)
```

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Docs](#docs)
- [CLI](#cli)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

Only macOS and Linux are supported right now. [Windows support](https://github.com/babashka/bbin/issues/1) will be added later.

### Manual

**1. Install `bbin` CLI:**
```zsh
mkdir -p ~/.bbin/bin && curl -o- -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/babashka/bbin/v{{version}}/bbin > ~/.bbin/bin/bbin && chmod +x ~/.bbin/bin/bbin
```

**2. Add `~/.bbin/bin` to `PATH`:**
```zsh
echo 'export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.bbin/bin"' >> ~/.zshrc && exec /bin/zsh
```

## Usage

```
# Install a script from a qualified lib name
$ bbin install io.github.rads/watch
$ bbin install io.github.babashka/neil --latest-sha
$ bbin install org.babashka/http-server --mvn/version 0.1.11

# Install a script from a URL
$ bbin install https://gist.githubusercontent.com/rads/da8ecbce63fe305f3520637810ff9506/raw/25e47ce2fb5f9a7f9d12a20423e801b64c20e787/portal.clj

# Install a script from a local root
$ git clone https://github.com/babashka/bbin.git ~/src/bbin
$ bbin install io.github.babashka/bbin --local/root ~/src/bbin --as bbin-dev

# Remove a script
$ bbin uninstall watch

# Show installed scripts
$ bbin ls

# Trust a GitHub user
$ bbin trust --github/user bbin-test
$ bbin install io.github.bbin-test/watch

# Stop trusting a GitHub user
$ bbin revoke --github/user bbin-test

# Show the bin path
$ bbin bin

# TODO: Not implemented yet, but possibly supported in the future
$ bbin install https://gist.github.com/1d7670142f8117fa78d7db40a9d6ee80.git
$ bbin install git@gist.github.com:1d7670142f8117fa78d7db40a9d6ee80.git
$ bbin install https://github.com/babashka/http-server/releases/download/v0.1.11/http-server.jar
$ bbin install foo.clj
$ bbin install ~/src/watch
$ bbin install http-server.jar
```

## Docs

- [CLI Docs](#cli)
- [Design Docs](docs/design.md)
- [Auto-Completion](docs/auto-completion.md)

## CLI

- [`bbin install [script]`](#bbin-install-script)
- [`bbin uninstall [script]`](#bbin-uninstall-script)
- [`bbin ls`](#bbin-ls)
- [`bbin bin`](#bbin-bin)
- [`bbin trust [identity]`](#bbin-trust-identity)
- [`bbin revoke [identity]`](#bbin-revoke-identity)

---

### `bbin install [script]`

**Install a script**

- The scripts will be installed to `~/.bbin/bin`.
- Each bin script is a self-contained shell script that fetches deps and invokes `bb` with the correct arguments.
- The bin scripts can be configured using the CLI options or the `:bbin/bin` key in `bb.edn`

**Example `bb.edn` Config:**

```clojure
{:bbin/bin {neil {:main-opts ["-f" "neil"]}}}
```

**Supported Options:**

- `--as`
- `--git/sha`
- `--git/tag`
- `--git/url`
- `--latest-sha`
- `--local/root`
- `--main-opts`
- `--mvn/version`

---

### `bbin uninstall [script]`

**Remove a script**

---

### `bbin ls`

**List installed scripts**

---

### `bbin bin`

**Display bbin bin folder**

- The default folder is `~/.bbin/bin`

---

### `bbin trust [identity]`

**Trust an identity**

- For [security purposes][security], by default you can only install scripts from HTTP URLs provided by GitHub users and orgs listed in `babashka.bbin.trust/allow-list`.
- This same list also limits whether you can install a qualified lib name using inference (i.e. without a `--git/sha`).
- To relax these limitations, you can trust specific GitHub users with the `--github/user` option.
- Each trusted user is represented as an EDN file in `~/.bbin/trust` (owned by the `sudo` user)
- Using `bbin trust` requires `sudo` access in order to modify files in `~/.bbin/trust`
- `bbin` will not read files in `~/.bbin/trust` unless they're owned by the `sudo` user

[security]: https://github.com/babashka/bbin/blob/bdea1c92ed50fb38eed0af38d69922e0a9d61df6/docs/design.md#security

**Supported Options:**

- `--github/user`

---

### `bbin revoke [identity]`

**Stop trusting an identity**

---

## Contributing

If you'd like to contribute to `bbin`, you're welcome to create [issues for ideas, feature requests, and bug reports](https://github.com/babashka/bbin/issues).

## License

`bbin` is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add more overview info to `README.md`

README.template.md, after:

# bbin

**ALPHA STATUS**

Install any Babashka script or project with one command.

```
$ bbin install io.github.rads/watch
{:coords {:git/sha "d5f36aa54e685f42f9592a7f3dd28badc3588c08",
          :git/tag "v0.0.4",
          :git/url "https://github.com/rads/watch"},
 :lib io.github.rads/watch}
        
$ watch --version
watch 0.0.4

$ bbin install https://gist.githubusercontent.com/rads/da8ecbce63fe305f3520637810ff9506/raw/25e47ce2fb5f9a7f9d12a20423e801b64c20e787/portal.clj
{:coords {:bbin/url "https://gist.githubusercontent.com/rads/da8ecbce63fe305f3520637810ff9506/raw/25e47ce2fb5f9a7f9d12a20423e801b64c20e787/portal.clj"}}

# Open a Portal window with all installed scripts
$ portal <(bbin ls)
```

See the [**Scripts and Projects**](https://github.com/babashka/bbin/wiki/Scripts-and-Projects) wiki page for a list of CLI tools from the community. This list is just a starting point -- any existing Babashka script or project can be installed out-of-the-box!

See the [**Usage**](#usage) and [**CLI**](#cli) docs for more examples of what `bbin` can do.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Docs](#docs)
- [CLI](#cli)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

Only macOS and Linux are supported right now. [Windows support](https://github.com/babashka/bbin/issues/1) will be added later.

### Manual

**1. Install `bbin` CLI:**
```zsh
mkdir -p ~/.bbin/bin && curl -o- -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/babashka/bbin/v{{version}}/bbin > ~/.bbin/bin/bbin && chmod +x ~/.bbin/bin/bbin
```

**2. Add `~/.bbin/bin` to `PATH`:**
```zsh
echo 'export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.bbin/bin"' >> ~/.zshrc && exec /bin/zsh
```

## Usage

```
# Install a script from a qualified lib name
$ bbin install io.github.rads/watch
$ bbin install io.github.babashka/neil --latest-sha
$ bbin install org.babashka/http-server --mvn/version 0.1.11

# Install a script from a URL
$ bbin install https://gist.githubusercontent.com/rads/da8ecbce63fe305f3520637810ff9506/raw/25e47ce2fb5f9a7f9d12a20423e801b64c20e787/portal.clj

# Install a script from a local root
$ git clone https://github.com/babashka/bbin.git ~/src/bbin
$ bbin install io.github.babashka/bbin --local/root ~/src/bbin --as bbin-dev

# Remove a script
$ bbin uninstall watch

# Show installed scripts
$ bbin ls

# Trust a GitHub user
$ bbin trust --github/user bbin-test
$ bbin install io.github.bbin-test/watch

# Stop trusting a GitHub user
$ bbin revoke --github/user bbin-test

# Show the bin path
$ bbin bin

# TODO: Not implemented yet, but possibly supported in the future
$ bbin install https://gist.github.com/1d7670142f8117fa78d7db40a9d6ee80.git
$ bbin install git@gist.github.com:1d7670142f8117fa78d7db40a9d6ee80.git
$ bbin install https://github.com/babashka/http-server/releases/download/v0.1.11/http-server.jar
$ bbin install foo.clj
$ bbin install ~/src/watch
$ bbin install http-server.jar
```

## Docs

- [CLI Docs](#cli)
- [Design Docs](docs/design.md)
- [Auto-Completion](docs/auto-completion.md)

## CLI

- [`bbin install [script]`](#bbin-install-script)
- [`bbin uninstall [script]`](#bbin-uninstall-script)
- [`bbin ls`](#bbin-ls)
- [`bbin bin`](#bbin-bin)
- [`bbin trust [identity]`](#bbin-trust-identity)
- [`bbin revoke [identity]`](#bbin-revoke-identity)

---

### `bbin install [script]`

**Install a script**

- The scripts will be installed to `~/.bbin/bin`.
- Each bin script is a self-contained shell script that fetches deps and invokes `bb` with the correct arguments.
- The bin scripts can be configured using the CLI options or the `:bbin/bin` key in `bb.edn`

**Example `bb.edn` Config:**

```clojure
{:bbin/bin {neil {:main-opts ["-f" "neil"]}}}
```

**Supported Options:**

- `--as`
- `--git/sha`
- `--git/tag`
- `--git/url`
- `--latest-sha`
- `--local/root`
- `--main-opts`
- `--mvn/version`

---

### `bbin uninstall [script]`

**Remove a script**

---

### `bbin ls`

**List installed scripts**

---

### `bbin bin`

**Display bbin bin folder**

- The default folder is `~/.bbin/bin`

---

### `bbin trust [identity]`

**Trust an identity**

- For [security purposes][security], by default you can only install scripts from HTTP URLs provided by GitHub users and orgs listed in `babashka.bbin.trust/allow-list`.
- This same list also limits whether you can install a qualified lib name using inference (i.e. without a `--git/sha`).
- To relax these limitations, you can trust specific GitHub users with the `--github/user` option.
- Each trusted user is represented as an EDN file in `~/.bbin/trust` (owned by the `sudo` user)
- Using `bbin trust` requires `sudo` access in order to modify files in `~/.bbin/trust`
- `bbin` will not read files in `~/.bbin/trust` unless they're owned by the `sudo` user

[security]: https://github.com/babashka/bbin/blob/bdea1c92ed50fb38eed0af38d69922e0a9d61df6/docs/design.md#security

**Supported Options:**

- `--github/user`

---

### `bbin revoke [identity]`

**Stop trusting an identity**

---

## Contributing

If you'd like to contribute to `bbin`, you're welcome to create [issues for ideas, feature requests, and bug reports](https://github.com/babashka/bbin/issues).

## License

`bbin` is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
